---
layout: post
title: "Game Development with Unity3D"
subtitle: 'My first platform game'
author: "Shsun"
header-style: text
tags:
  - Unity3D
  - Blog
---

Sometimes it was interesting to look at myself several years ago and found something stupid.

This was my first attempt to make a 2D platform game with Unity back in 2016. First chapter was recorded [here on Bilibili](https://www.bilibili.com/video/av4137891).

I wrote the scrips with C#, following multiple tutorials on YouTube. Basically finished creating assets, physics and colliders, prefebs, layers, animations and everything. The character tiles were painted myself with PhotoShop, while some tree tiles were from pixel art resources. After I figured out the general framework of the game and how to connect different levels, I stuck at a point when I started writing character dialogue: What is the story? What do you want to convey to the players?  

I thought to create a game about a shiba dog (yes it was me actually) woke up one morning, realizing that it was a dog and began to seek the cure. Then the shiba went through different levels and adventure stuff, in the campus (yes that's the background setting), and finally found the magic to transfrom back to human.  

I've learned a lot and tried many things. I made a 3D fluffy shiba with Blender, a wonderful 3D creation software. Then I found it was too complicated to make a 3D game, with only myself. Then the most realistic choice was to make an ordinary 2D platform game. Anyway, it's the story that matters. The sad thing was, I don't have the energy for creating a wonderful story and the motivation for finishing the entire game, as I was to graduate and things happened.  

It's still amazing to see that I was so eager to learn so many things in a short time period, just to show off :joy::joy::joy:
