---
layout: post
title: "Adobe products, all for fan art"
subtitle: 'too expensive to continue'
author: "Shsun"
header-style: text
tags:
  - Blog
---

I used to be a Sherlock fan and created some fan art works for the community. Fan arts are bonds through which you can share a strong feeling with others. People around the world can actually share a connection through a picture, a video, an article or any form of fan arts. They were nice and supportive, which was really amazing.

I used Creative Cloud for many softwares such as PhotoShop, Premiere and Animate provided by Adobe. I also tried other Adobe products like Character Animator, which can track your emotions and mouth movements to help easier animations. I tried After Effects to make a video intro (though I never make videos after that).

I was inspired by [by pingvi](https://www.youtube.com/user/smska1995/videos?disable_polymer=1), KatrinDepp and Pteryx, some Russian Youtubers that made fanvids. Then I tried best to edit my own fanvids, using Vegas Pro, a free video editting software. Later I started using Premiere Pro, which was supposed to be more professional. Then I got some views. There's a map that you can check where your viewers are from on YouTube. It was actually quite amazing to know that your videos had been viewed by people from places that you have never been to.  

People sometimes left nice comments that I wouldn't have in the real world. The most satisfying thing about making fan art is when you know that you do spread a little love and happiness to someone who you would never meet, and it's real. 
